So we got that.
Now, we need to do the same thing for
sign in.
So let's do the same thing for sign in.
So export const sign in request response.
Let's think through this.
Create new user, make sense.
We took the username and
the password you gave us.
We hash that password.
We've got to use it from the database.
Assuming it works, created a token
from it and sent you back the token.
I was signed in work.
>> We have to get the token
from the request added?
>> No, no token yet, sign in, just like
creating a user also issues a token.
They're signing in because
they don't have a token.
Yep, so no token yet.
>> And just one question.
In the token,
we are putting the user object and
user object will have the password, right?
>> It does but we specifically said in our
create that we're only putting the ID and
the username.
Yeah, we pass the whole user object but we
don't use all the properties on it, yeah.
Good call, yeah, you don't wanna put
the password on a JSON web token.
Yeah, that would be bad, yeah.
I mean, let's just think about it.
What does it mean to even sign in?
>> That we need the username and password.
>> We need the username and
password cuz, I mean,
think about you're on a sign in form.
Don't you type in your username or
email password?
Okay, what do you think
is happening with that?
How do they know?
>> Checking something.
>> Yeah, what is it checking?
What do you think?
What's being checked
>> If your name and
the password exists somewhere.
>> Okay, so there's a user with
this username in the database.
Okay, cool, I found you.
You're in the database.
But how do I know you're you?
Anybody couldn't do your username?
How do I know you are you?
>> Your password is unique to your name.
>> Okay, so password,
let's talk about password.
What am I looking at your password at?
Look at this line right here, right?
I'm gonna compare the password
you sent up when you signed in
to the hashed password that
this user has in the database.
And if they match,
you must be who you say you are, right?
Cuz I already found you by username,
so you exist and
your password matched what was in
the database if I hashed it again.
So either you got this person's password
or you are who you say you are, so
that's what we're gonna do.
I love the way you think.
So let's do that.
So first, let's find the user.
So user would be
await.prisma.user.findUnique and
you put an object in there
with a where property.
I need an async.
So I'm saying
prisma.user.findUnique where, and
I could say where username is gonna be,
req.body.username.
You gotta send me your
username if you wanna sign it.
I'm not going to pass password here.
The reason I'm not gonna pass password
here is because it would not find
the password.
Because the password that you're sending
up on sign in is a plain text password,
but the password that's in
the database is a hash password.
They would never match, so
I can't put password here.
You might say, why won't you just
hash the plain text password and
search the database for a combination
of a user that has this username and
that has password?
Yeah, I could do that.
But then we'd have to go back to indexing
and we'll have to put an index on
a password, which would probably be really
expensive in every way you could think of.
So it's probably not the best
use case to index a password.
Think something that changes frequently
and there's a better way to do it and
that's why we made that helper function.
So we're not gonna query for a combination
of a username and a password.
Instead, we're just gonna see if there's
a user period with this username.
We're not saying this you yet.
We're just saying,
is there even a user with his username?
That's first step.
Second step is, okay, I'm gonna look
at that user's hashed password and
see if it matches the password
that you pass me in plain text.
If those things match, when they're both
hashed, you must be who you say you are.
Cuz you have the right username and
you have the password
that match that username.
So that's what we're gonna do.
So I'm gonna say const isValid.
And I'm gonna say await comparePasswords.
And the first password
is the plain text one.
So I'll say req.body.password and
the second one is the hash
which would be user.password.
Okay, and I can say, if not is valid,
then you just knew someone's password and
tried to sign in but
you didn't have the right.
Someone's trying to hack your account.
That's what's happening, or you just fat
fingered your password, one of the two.
So if not is valid and
I can be, yeah, get out here.
Res.json401, res.status401,
which means not authorized and
I can send a message if I want to.
Nope, and I'm gonna return,
cuz I don't want it to continue.
But if it is valid, cool.
You are who you say you are,
everything checks out.
Let me go ahead and
create your token right quick.
And send you that token back so
you get access to the rest of the API.
>> Just one question.
When we are doing the compare password,
why we need to do async because it should
be in the memory later comparing or?
>> Yeah, so that's a great question,
so why don't we do async?
It basically comes down to
how bcrypt is designed.
So bcrypt has three different
ways to do these methods.
You could do them synchronously, but you
specifically have to say compare sync or
hash sync, and then it synchronously.
If you don't do that, you'll get the
asynchronous version which, by default,
returns a promise.
Both of these return a promise.
Or you can just pass a call back
into it that old school that way but
I'm not doing that.
So I'm gonna use the async await cuz this
is a promise and this is a promise but,
yeah, you're right.
You can do it in memory if you pass sync,
yeah.
>> And another question is in the Prisma,
while we are doing the where clause.
>> Yes, the where clause here.
>> Yeah, directly taking the value
from request body.username.
Does it secure the,
I mean, taking the time.
>> You know too much, so no,
there is no input validation
happening right now on the body.
That is something that we're
gonna talk about tomorrow.
But yeah, right now, no,
we're trusting the user.
>> Some of the ORM does the,
I mean, input.
>> Yeah, some ORMs do input validation.
I think there's some things
you can do in Prisma.
To do that, I know a Mongo,
you can write middleware and
Mongo schema to validate different things.
I don't even do that stuff in SQL.
There's some things but
I don't know whether Mechanism and
Prisma that allows you to do that.
But regardless, we would probably
validate inputs in a middleware anyway.
We would just throw in
a middleware on the route
somewhere that would validate those inputs
before they even got to the handler.
Because my philosophy is, I want
the handlers to not even think about off.
I don't want them thinking
about validations.
I don't want them thinking about inputs.
I just want them to, by time they execute,
they can assume everything is right.
Because all the middleware before
them did all the other stuff, right?
That way, you're not repeating the logic
in every single handler that you have.
Check to see if the user's there.
Check to see if the input's good.
You're gonna do that copy and
paste over every single handler was used.
Put that on one middleware,
then that's just the middleware's job, and
the handler is protected.
So you know when a handler was called.
It was a correct API call and
not you just separate your business
logic from the other logic, basically.